---
layout: post
title:  "An Argument for a NISER Blogging Platform"
date:   2020-04-28 10:15:00 +0530
---

For a while now, I've been feeling that starting a public blog for us NISER students would be a good idea. I'm talking about something like the MIT Admissions Blog, albeit one with a more serious tone. The main reason for this is the sheer number of times I've felt angry and unhappy about certain developments in college, feelings that were only compounded by the 'I don't give a shit' attitude that most students seemed to share. Every time I wanted to impart some of that feeling of injustice to my peers, to spur them to action, I felt gagged because of a lack of opportunities to communicate.  I'm sure I'm not the only one at NISER who can relate to this feeling. 

At the moment, the only big platform that we have to communicate among ourselves is the NISER email. However, active discussions through the official mail are greatly discouraged, so as not to impose upon those who'd rather not be bothered. On the flip side, there have been several instances during just these past couple of years that have necessitated intense discussions among students. The warden council curbing some of our freedoms or a group of students threatening to incite violence if a particular documentary is screened are all examples of such incidents. In times like these, open communication is what's required to form a common consensus, which in turn would constitute the basis for decisive counter-action. This proposed blog would be a place where students can share their opinions on college-related matters and attempt to bring people together for a good cause (which, I admit, is precisely what I think I'm doing right now). An editorial board would be needed to oversee the content that gets published, of course, foreseeing the possibility that hurtful or harmful messages may slip through otherwise. But all things considered, I trust that this idea has potential. My only fear is that the general apathy of NISER students that is the doom of so many well-intentioned endeavors might end up proving fatal for this one too.