---
layout: post
title:  "My country no longer?"
excerpt: "The first post on this blog. It introduces one of the major themes I intend to pursue in the future."
---

To make my first ever blog post also my most polarizing one was not a hard decision for me. Ideally, what you want to do is start off with content that is easy to digest for everyone so that you don't scare potential readers away. At least, that's what I read on the internet. But then again, the only reason I'm starting a blog is to put my thoughts and ideas out, so that I may find like-minded people. I'm pretty sure I can't do that if I'm actively censoring my words. And so I've decided to just wing it. I hope that when you get to the end of this article, you come off either liking this very much or hating this very much. As long as you feel something, then maybe I haven't entirely failed in what I've set out to achieve. 

The story has many parts, but I think two incidents are enough to give anyone the gist of it.

Incident number one. I was doing an internship in Kolkata last year, and every morning on my commute to the workplace I would pass this saffron-clad man in his fifties heading in the opposite direction. He caught my attention because he used to greet everyone he saw with loud dramatic cries of 'Jai Shri Ram'. I had the fortune to be greeted thus on several occasions. Anyway, this one day late into the summer, I saw him standing across a small child who was waiting for his school bus alone, and he was coercing the child to return his salutation. The child appeared reluctant, to say the least, and was relieved only when his father came and told our protagonist to take a hike. I imagined the child thinking, 'Was I supposed to say that?'. I didn't run into him again, but if I had I was planning on greeting him with a 'wa'alaiku mussalam'. I don't suppose he would have liked that very much.


Incident number two. This happened more recently. The film club at my college scheduled a screening of the documentary 'Ram Ke Naam'. Perhaps you can guess what happened next. If not, some students objected, and they threatened to bring goons from outside and wreak havoc if the screening took place. The threat was credible enough that our Director had to call off the event citing concerns to campus safety, marking the first time his hand was forced in such a manner. I have to admit, before this affair, I used to think that the people at my college were above all this partisan bullshit, with us being an '...Institute of Science.. and Research'. Apparently not.

Episodes that are motivated by the same root causes as the above-mentioned events are taking place all over India. These just happen to be the ones that I had direct involvement with. I strongly believe that a lot of people reading this would have had similar experiences, experiences which made you think 'What the heck is happening here?'. I'm depending on that very belief in writing this article, hoping to reach out to those who can relate to this. 

I'm a Muslim mostly due to my birth and my name, not so much because of my beliefs or my actions. And so what disturbs me about what is happening in India is not that there's persecution against my community, but that it exists against some community. In all fairness, I have never found a lot of reasons to be proud of India. But if there's one thing that I've always held close to my heart, it is that we were a country continuously striving to be inclusive of all its people, ever since our independence. That we do this despite all the religions and the castes and the cultures and the many other things that divide its citizens. Unfortunately, that does not appear to be true any longer. With that gone, the only true ideological connection that I've ever felt with my country is also gone. What is left in its wake is a citizen who's unsure whether to stay and fight, or to let go and leave.